Science is the logical analysis, which is present in the analysis of this world as well as in the analysis of the divine knowledge. In fact, sages have analysed the items of the creation with the logical analysis and finally concluded that no item is God. In fact, there is no direct way to indicate the God. The only way leftover is the elimination of all the items of the creation through logical analysis as said in the Veda (Neti neti). Thus, the entire spiritual knowledge is filled with science only because you cannot analyse God who is beyond creation. Thus, the Jnana Yoga, which is the identification of the Lord in human form, requires the elimination of fraud human incarnations through logical analysis only. The Gita says that the constant association of spiritual knowledge with the science always continues . The knowledge ends when the Lord in human form is recognized. Up to this point there is every possibility to slip and therefore, science should be in your hand like a glowing torchlight. When you reach the house, the torch light is put off and now the next step is to please the Lord in human form, you require the blind faith and blind love on Him. Therefore, the logical analysis should be shut down because the Lord is beyond logic. From this point onwards, the devotion (Bhakti) starts. For e.g.: In selecting a girl for marriage, you can examine several alliances with logical analysis. But once you marry a girl, you should not still continue to see the alliances and go on continuing with logical analysis. This devotion leads to service finally. In both the stages of devotion and service, the scientific analysis must stop. Thus, science is the torchlight that helps you to examine yourself and conclude that you are not God already. The science also acts as torchlight in detecting the true path to reach the Lord. Science or Vijnana is also called as Buddhii. This is the driver who leads you in your car up to the place of God. Therefore, the Gita starts with this driver only (Buddhii Yoga). This torchlight is also useful to eliminate the wrong house. That means you can distinguish the real human form of God from other fraud incarnations. But once you enter the house after deciding that it is the correct house, there is no need of torchlight because the house is full with lights. The Sadguru is with full knowledge and logical analysis.